There are other ways to add color than just naming them (like blue; yellow; and so on).  There are several options available.
Option 1: HEX values -- Using hex values to arrive at a color.
Option 2: RGB values -- Using Red-Green-Blue (RGB) value to arrive at a color
Option 3: RGBA values -- like RGB but with A for alpha, which sets transparency.
Option 4: HSL values -- Using Hue-Saturation-Lightness values to arrive at a color.
Option 5: HSLA values -- HSL with the alpha transparency added.

---
Option 1: HEX. Hex is short for Hexadecimal, and in this context it's a color reference specified by a hexadecimal number.  The hex number has 6 digits and can be divided into 2 pairs of reds, greens, and blues. The hex integer specifies the color components.
Values are set in the form of 00 and ff. The ff value is the maximum value possible in hex, at 255.  The HEX colors are a mix of numbers and alphabets.
See example indexhex.html
There is also a 3-digit hexcode as well. The shorter code is shorthand for the 6-digit. The single digits represent r,g,b. One value is used for double. Therefore, the code #ff00cc is exactly the same and reduced to #f0c.
see example indexhex2.html

Option 2: RGB.  RGB is short for "Red Green Blue". They are the major colors, scientifically observed, that form the source of light.  Each parameter of the color formula defines the intensity of a color in combination between the 0 and 255th values.  If  you set the first unit at 255 and the other 2 at 0, the HTML element will give off an intense red color. This is because the red will be fullest blast, and the other 2 major colors will be set to 0, not showing any influence.

To display the color black, what would we do then? We would set the values to 0,0,0.  To display white, the values whould be 255 (255,255,255). This is the way we get around the difficult question of how much RGB is found in either color.

There is a wide spectrum and we can specify colors if we know their RGB values. For those that want grey, we can use RGB for multiple shades of grey. see the example indexrgb2.html

Option 3: RGBA. This is RGB with an Alpha value added to it for opacity.  The RGBA has RGB and alpha, which is a number between 0 and 1. Transparency is 0 and Opaque is 1.  Doing this is the most professional method to manipulate colors without manipulating values.
See indexrgba.html .

Option 4: HSL. Short for "Hue,Saturation, and Lightness". A color c an be specified by using the values of HSL.  This ranges from 0 to 360, where 0 is red and 120 is green, 240 is blue.  Saturation value is measured in a percentage. 0 means grey shade while 100% means full color.  Lightness also comes in a percentage where 0 is black, 50 is middle, and 100 is white.

Option 5: HSLA. Same as above, with alpha like the RGBA.  