Having already worked with background colors a bit in the last chapter, it's time to play with the background in more detail.

Backgrounds can be set with an opacity value. The property takes any value between 0 and 1. That means that the lower the value (0.1,0.2) the more transparent the background is. It's like an alpha value in RGBA/HSLA but as a property. We can even use it independently in CSS.

see index.html

Background Properties
When using the opacity property for adding transparency to the background of a certain HTML element, all the child elements will be transparent at the same level. If done wrong it will be difficult for users to read things.

Images
Another property of CSS that can be applied to backgrounds is images.  The image property can be specified, allowing us to use images as the background of our webpage.  The image will be repeated to cover the entire element.
see indexbgimage.html for example. skyfall.gif is referenced but not provided so I brought a gif from the movie skyfall which fit the bill.

The most important thing to keep in mind when using images as a background is that we should not use an image that messes with the text and legibility of the text. We want readability. We can set a background image for certain elements without displaying it on the entire page. The property called "background-image" can repeat in both horizontal and vertical styles. Some images would look weird if they didn't get repeated while others look weird. We can choose not to repeat it by using "no-repeat" image property. We can also position the background image to the top or bottom corners by using specific properties.

Borders in CSS
The CSS borders are fixable with width, style, and color. We have various ways of implementing borders to content and elements.
Example 1: borders1.html

Border Width 
It is possible to adjust width of borders by specifying a size in em, px(pixels), cm, and pt(points). These measures will make borders thinner, thicker, or somewhere in the middle depending on what is specified.
see borders2.html for a single set of examples

Border Colors
CSS has a border color property to set border colors. It can accept HEX,HSL, or RGB to specify color. It also takes named colors (red,green,blue).  If the color isn't set it will absorb the element's color by default. That means an otherwise orange <p> will also have a orange border.  Also: color can be changed between sides of the border.
See example borders3.html and borders4.html .

Border Sides 
We can pattern colors and styles for each side independently if we want.  What we need for that is to add border-(side here)-style:  (type of border); border-color:(color);

There are rules for this however:
Rule 1: Adding 4 values and ordering them ridge,dotted, solid, dashed will put the top as ridged, the right as dotted, the bottom as solid, and the left as dashed.
Rule 2: Adding 3 values and ordering as solid dotted dashed will make the top one solid, right and left dotted, and bottom dashed.
Rule 3: Adding 2 values (solid, dashed) will put top and bottom as solid and right/left as dashed.
Rule 4: Adding just solid will make all sides solid.

Rounded Borders
To round borders, we have a property called border-radius.
see border-radius.html .
