CSS Text notes
One of the things that we have to work on when developing and designing a website is formatting the texts and filling boxes in a way that displays best.  For that reason, CSS text formatting is an important feature because, without the text and the content, the website design is itself meaningless.
see example1.html

Text alignment
The text-alignment property tunes in the alignment of the text. We can make it go horizontally or vertically as required. We can center, right-align, or justify (relative center?). Each line will then be stretched to have equal width by default. Right/Left margins will be straight like newspapers or magazines.

Text Direction
We can use Unicode-bidi and direction properties to alter the direction of the text.
see example2.html 

Vertical alignmentThe vertical-align property will set up vertical alignment for our HTML elements. We can add an image and set up vertical alignment for that too.
see example3.html 

Decoration
CSS allows us to use something called text-decoration. The property makes and removes decorations. If the value is none, the property will remove them.
text-decoration: overline, line-through, underline

Text Transformation
This specifies case in lettering...so...upper or lowercase.
text-transformation: uppercase, lowercase, capitalize.
capitalize only does first letter of a word.

Indentation
This indents the text of the first line.
text-indent: ?? px 

Letter Spacing
This is for spacing between letters.
letter-spacing: ?? px or -?? px

Height
We can set the height of lines by using line-height: and giving it 0 - 1 in point increments (.10,.20) (and beyond 2). This will set the line to be closer to the line above it, mashing the text together vertically.

Wordspacing
Similar property to letter spacing.

Text Shadow
we can use text-shadow to add. It has h-shadow, v-shadow, color, and inherit.  

CSS Fonts
There are 5 major font families:
1)serif (small edge additions..good for formal). Examples include Times New Roman, Georgia and Garamond.
2)sans-serif (edgeless and clean lines. More modern and minimalist). Examples include Verdana, Helvetica, and Arial.
3)monospace. They have a fixed width between letters. These are more mechanical looking and include Monaco, Courier New, and Lucida Console.
4)Cursive. They're resemblant of handwriting. examples include Lucida Handwriting and Brush Script M7.
5)Fantasy. They are bold, playful, and highly decorative.  Things like Copperplate and Papyrus.

We can use font-family to decide which font we need to display.  It should ideally have several fonts named with it to make sure browsers don't play games with it.  Start with the one you want and put the backups after it.
i.e. font-family: "tmes New Roman", Times, serif;

To see them in action, see fonts1.html .

There is also font-style, which specifies text to be turned italic.  Oblique is similar to italic but less supported.

Font-weight is another property, but for boldness.  It has several ways of determining color strength like lighter, bold, 1000.

Font-variant capitalizes.

Font-Size Property 
This is useful for setting the size of the text.

CSS Font-Pairing
This about styling fonts to be different so they generate better interest in the eye.

